
Fitness distance correlation:

	A summary statistic that predicts the performance of genetic algorithm for global optimazition

	A counterexample is a "GA-easy" fitness function showing no relation between fitness and Hamming distance
	from groble optimal.

------------------

Introduction:

	Large negative correlation between Hamming distance indicates the system is easy to optimize with GA.

	Large positive correlation between Hamming distance indicates the problem is misleading.

	Zero distance means the fitness function has no guidance, and the GA equals to random search.

	FDC is encouraged and alarmed, since it works but the distance isn't based on GA operaters.

	According to Jones, the Hamming distance is strongly related to mutation, 
	which indicating the mutation is more important than the crossover.

	Another interpretation is that the combination procedure has deeper relation with Hamming distance.
------------------

Constructing a conterexample:

	Single-point crossover was used to devise a "distance" measure.

	The Crossover Distance is difined as the number of combinations needed to make a complimentary pair into the global optimum.

	Conterexample:
		
		The bit string is symmetric to make FDC zero.

		
---------------------

Result:
	No relations between fitness and distance

	Optimum can be easily found with:
	
		roulette wheel selection, discrete generations, random mating, single-point crossover, no mutation

	With the bitstring length increasing, the probability of finding global optimum decrease.

	The reason for some run that fails is premature convergence.

	The portion of search space is much less than random search, which can be thought as GA-easy.

	Predictors that shows the problem to be GA-easy:

		Parent-Offspring Correlation would predict this to be a GA-easy problem, 
		but counterexamples has been seen.

		Evolvability Analysis represents the probability that an offspring is better than its parents.

		Crossover-Based Fitness Distance Correlation Analysis:

			The crossover is frequency dependent, so there is no static distance metric can be mapped.

			The crossover distance is set to be D(x), the discontinuities between 0s and 1s in x,
			which indicate the minimum number of crossover required to achieve global optimum.
			This test clearly indecated the problem is GA-easy.

			A second measure is to set the fitness of bitstrings that only need one step of crossover to 
			get the global optimum to 1, and the fitness of bitstrings that could produce these to 2. 
			
			The result of test shows that this problem is straight forward for GA to solve.
	
			
		Mutation-Based Fitness Distance Correlation Analysis:

			Good at finding sub-optimum.				

